Updating Multi-Tenant Apps page (#7991)
auth0/docs: articles/design/using-auth0-with-multi-tenant-apps.md

useCase: strategize
---

# Using Auth0 to Secure Your Multi-Tenant Applications

> This article provides a high-level overview of how Auth0 can help you to secure your multi-tenant applications.

Reviewer: This article provides a high-level overview of how Auth0 can help you ~to~ secure your multi-tenant applications.

> [Multi-tenancy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multitenancy) is when a single instance of software runs on a server that is accessible to multiple groups of users. In fact, Auth0 itself is a multi-tenant application; your collection of applications, settings, and connections is called a "tenant". Note that this document is **not about using multiple Auth0 tenant(s)**, but is about using Auth0 to secure your own multi-tenant application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is multi-tenancy

[Multi-tenancy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multitenancy) is when a single instance of software runs on a server that is accessible to multiple groups of users.

Auth0's Public Cloud is an example of a multi-tenant application. Your applications, settings, and connections are a single tenant, which shares resources with other tenants in the Public Cloud.

Please note that this article is **not about using multiple Auth0 tenant(s)**. It is about using Auth0 to secure your own multi-tenant application.
```

Author: ?

## Auth0 and multi-tenancy

> There are several ways you can handle multi-tenant applications with Auth0. If you intend to use a single Auth0 tenant for all your customers you can handle your multi-tenancy needs with one of the following approaches:

Reviewer: There are several ways you can handle multi-tenant applications with Auth0. If you use one Auth0 tenant for all of your customers, you can handle multi-tenancy using one of the following methods:

* [Use multiple connections](#use-multiple-connections)
* [Identify different tenants by application](#identify-tenants-by-application)
* [Store tenant details in app_metadata](#store-tenant-details-in-app_metadata)

> * [Use separate Auth0 tenants](#create-separate-auth0-tenants-for-each-customer)

Reviewer: * [Use multiple connections](#use-multiple-connections)
* [Identify each of your tenants with its own application](#identify-tenants-by-application)
* [Store tenant details in `app_metadata`](#store-tenant-details-in-appmetadata)

Note that I moved the last into its own category -- we discourage it, so I thought I'd set it off visually

Author: I am not sure I agree with splitting it out, though, because it's still a valid option, and now it doesn't seem like the last in a list of options, it feels like it was important enough to break out on its own.

### Use multiple connections

> With this scenario, you would separate tenants by connection. Each connection would be a different pool of users. 

Reviewer: You can use multiple connections to handle your tenants. Each connection would represent and contain a different pool of users.

::: warning
If you use [Lock](/libraries/lock) in your applications, Lock supports a maximum of **50 Database Connections** per [application](/applications). Enterprise Connections are not affected by this limit. If you use the New Universal Login Experience, Lock is not involved and this limitation therefore does not affect you.
:::

> While using multiple [Connections](/identityproviders) introduces additional layers of complexity, there are several scenarios where this option might make sense:

Reviewer: Using multiple [Connections](/identityproviders) introduces additional layers of complexity, but there are several scenarios where the upsides of this option outweigh the downsides:

* You have different Connection-level requirements, such as varying password policies, for each of your Applications.
* You have user pools from different Connections. For example, one app may have users providing username/password credentials, while another app handles Enterprise logins.

> You can call `/authorize` with a specific connection for a user, using the `connection` option in the [Auth0 SPA SDK](/libraries/auth0-spa-js), or by passing a `connection` parameter to the `authorize()` method in [Auth0.js](/libraries/auth0js/v9).

Reviewer: Maybe a bit more context on what these actions do and why a user might care?

### Identify tenants by application

> In this scenario, each of your tenants would be a separate application in Auth0. This allows you to configure each slightly differently and to enable or disable connections per application at will, if your customers/tenants have different needs. This will require you to keep track of which tenant each of your users belongs to in your application, and then when logging them in, specify a connection to let them use. 

Reviewer: You can represent each of your tenants with a separate [application](/applications) in Auth0.

Representing each of your tenants with an application allows you to configure each one differently. You can also enable/disable [connections](/identityproviders) for individual applications if your tenants have varying requirements. Doing so, however, requires you to track the tenants to which your users belong in your application. Then, when they log in, you'll need to specify the connection they use.

> This method would require you to use a different set of Auth0 credentials for the users belonging to each customer, as each would be a different application.

Reviewer: This method requires you to use a different set of Auth0 credentials for users belonging to multiple tenants, since each tenant has its own Auth0 application.

Author: This could be easily confused to mean that a user could belong to multiple tenants, which is not what we're saying here.

> ### Store tenant details in app_metadata

Reviewer: Store tenant details in `app_metadata` or Store tenant details using metdata (would need to change to ToC if you choose the latter)

Author: I thought we were supposed to avoid using styling marks like that in headings?

> This is perhaps the simplest and most straightforward scenario, in which you simply add an `app_metadata` field for the tenant to [your metadata](/users/concepts/overview-user-metadata#metadata-usage), whatever identifier makes sense to you (such as `"tenant": "customer_12345"`). This method allows all of your users, despite what customer/tenant they belong to, to log in in one place with one user pool. You'll be able to check for this value in your application to sort users into the correct place after they login and are returned to your application.

Reviewer: Storing tenant details in the tenant [metadata](/users/concepts/overview-user-metadata#metadata-usage) is the simplest of the implementation scenarios we cover in this article.

Using the identifier of your choice (e.g., `"tenant": "customer_12345"`), you can store tenant related details in the `app_metadata` field. Doing so allows all of your users, regardless of which tenant to which they belong, to log in using one uniform method.

You can check for this value in your application after users log in and are redirected. This will help you sort users.

> ### Create separate Auth0 tenants for each customer

Reviewer: H2

> We recommend that you follow this approach only if you need to share access to the Auth0 Dashboard with individual customers. Otherwise, one of the above solutions is a more practical and easy to manage one than attempting to manage many Auth0 tenant dashboards, which is also not a scalable solution as your customer base grows.

Reviewer: You can create a separate Auth0 tenant for each of your tenants.

We recommend that you follow this approach only if you need to share access to the Auth0 Dashboard with individual customers. Otherwise, one of the above solutions is a more practical and easy to manage one than attempting to manage many Auth0 tenant dashboards, which is also not a scalable solution as your customer base grows.

> This method would require you to use a different set of Auth0 credentials for the users belonging to each customer, as each would be a different application.

Reviewer: This method would require you to use a different set of Auth0 credentials for the users belonging to two or more of your tenants, as each would be a different application.

Author: Again, I think this is misunderstood, so I'll try to re-word to be more clear
